Jehovah gives us his holy spirit,
both individually and as a group.
To see evidence of that,
we need only go to a part of the world
where Jehovah’s people
were put under intense pressure.
In South Africa, for example,
the government’s policy
of racial segregation, called apartheid,
lasted for 46 years, until 1994.
Our brothers were pressured
to take sides in armed conflict.
Their freedom to worship together
was limited.
And the prevailing attitudes
towards people of different races
threatened their unity.
In this report, we learn
how our South African brothers
remained united and neutral
and in support of God’s Kingdom.
One afternoon
when we came to the station,
there were men who were directing things
and we were directed
to a coach for whites only.
That was the first time
that we saw apartheid being law enforced.
You could not leave the black areas
where your home was
without getting a permit.
We were even given a permit that stipulated
which area we were allowed
to do the preaching work in.
People would always ask us:
“What are you doing to fight apartheid?”
We had to boldly tell them:
“God’s Kingdom is the only solution.
“God will help the whole earth
to live in peace one day,
so we cannot take sides
on political issues now.”
Here at home in Soweto,
we heard the sound
of children running in the streets.
We heard the sound of gunshots;
tear gas was everywhere.
When my husband came home that day,
we sat with the children
and took out the book
Your Youth—Getting the Best out of It
and we studied the topic
“How Do You View Your Parents?”
This was appropriate
because children had the spirit of rebelling
against their own parents.
They went as far as burning people.
They came shouting my son’s name:
“Aquila, Mathiba, come out, come out!”
And one of them defended him and said:
“No, no, no, not Aquila!
“Aquila does not do these things.
He will never protest.”
Ahh, I saw Jehovah’s hand in this.
Even under those circumstances,
Jehovah helped our children
not to dwell on the madness
in the streets,
and we focused on spiritual things.
In 1968, when I was 19 years old,
I was sentenced to jail
for refusing to do military service.
Over a period of 20 years,
close to 1,000 young white Witness men
similarly took their stand
for neutrality in this country.
We used to pray
for our white brothers in prison.
People in the black townships respected us
for the stand these brothers were taking.
In 1974,
over 30,000 black and white brothers met
for the afternoon session
of the “Divine Victory” Assembly.
When we first arrived,
there were policemen everywhere.
But after half an hour,
they saw how peaceful it was
and so they left.
For those few hours
in the dark era of apartheid,
we felt
the glorious brotherly love
as we praised Jehovah
together.
Brother Moses Nyamussua was asked
by a group on their way to a political rally
to weld weapons for them.
He refused to do so.
After their rally,
they went back to him and said:
“You refused to weld our weapons,
“and some of our comrades
were killed in a fight at the rally.
Now you will die.”
Brother Nyamussua maintained his neutrality
all the way to death,
and Jehovah will remember him.
In 1993, I was amazed
when a white person
came preaching house to house.
They came with another white man
who could speak Venda fluently.
That excited me a lot,
and as time went by,
I came to realize
that this is the true religion
because they were faithful friends
and they spoke to me like we were family.
In the late 1980’s,
the government granted us permission
to come in and build Kingdom Halls
in the black townships.
The local community
was absolutely amazed
to see all these whites
pouring in and working hard
along with their black brothers
to build these beautiful Kingdom Halls.
It was a wonderful privilege
to get to know other young people
of different races.
Everyone in the congregation feels
like family
as long as they serve Jehovah.
Just see yourself.
Just see me too.
Just see us all. . .
. . . in a world that is new.
Today, in South Africa,
there are more than 100,000 Witnesses
worshipping together in spirit and truth.
South Africa has 11 official languages.
Yet, across that cultural variety,
our brothers and sisters
are all speaking the “pure language”
—the truth about Jehovah God
and his purposes.